Add the osu!catch World Cup 2024 Concludes news post (#11689)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2024/2024-07-06-osu-catch-world-cup-2024-concludes.md

---
layout: post
title: osu!catch World Cup 2024 Concludes
date: 2024-07-06 12:00:00 +0000
---

> After years of South Korean domination, this year, we finally crown a new osu!catch World Cup champion.

Reviewer: "this year" feels redundant, i feel like it should either be removed or edited like below
```suggestion
After years of South Korean domination, this year we finally crown a new osu!catch World Cup champion.
```

![](/wiki/Tournaments/CWC/2024/img/cwc2024-banner.jpg)

> The United States, perservering after many podium finishes, manage for the first time in their history to win the osu!catch World Cup. They were the favourites coming into this tournament, and teared through their bracket to reach the Grand Finals with only a single map lost, and in the end, no one could stop them. It's only the fourth different country to win this tournament, after Chile, South Korea, and China, so it is a big day for our gamemode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The United States, persevering after many podium finishes, manage for the first time in their history to win the osu!catch World Cup. They were the favourites coming into this tournament, and tore through their bracket to reach the Grand Finals with only a single map lost, and in the end, no one could stop them. It's only the fourth different country to win this tournament, after Chile, South Korea, and China, so it is a big day for our game mode.
```

## Summary

![](/wiki/Tournaments/CWC/2024/img/cwc2024-podium.jpg)

Congratulations to the United States for their historic first osu!catch World Cup victory, and congratulations to Argentina and Poland on their podium finishes.

> The United States have been the "challengers" for years at this point, never being the favourites to win it all against China and South Korea in previous years. They were, however, always a top 6 contender and more often even 2nd and 3rd. With a lot of their core members remaining the same over the years, it is truly a special moment for them to finally become champions, after so many closes finishes.

Reviewer: having "years" twice that close to each other felt weird to me, this is totally subjective though
```suggestion
The United States have been the "challengers" for years at this point, but were never the favourites to win it all against China and South Korea. They were however, always a top 6 contender and more often even 2nd and 3rd. With a lot of their core members remaining the same over the years, it is truly a special moment for them to finally become champions, after so many closes finishes.
```

We also have an (almost) entirely new podium this year, with Poland making their first appearance up there, along with Argentina who hadn't made top 3 since 2013. Both of these teams have had their best run ever this tournament, and thanks to their hard work and dedication, they finally reached the podium. A lot of new talent is stepping up, and this result reflects it.

## Grand Finals recap

### ::{ flag=US }:: United States vs. ::{ flag=AR }:: Argentina

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://player.twitch.tv/?video=2185967388&parent=osu.ppy.sh&autoplay=false" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true" scrolling="no"></iframe>
</div>

> This match was a repeat of the winners' bracket final, but it was different. In the Finals week, the United States won very convincingly 7-1 against Argentina — it was their first map loss of the tournament, but also their only this match. However, coming into this, Argentina was determined to make things different. The current roster for Argentina is known to be especially good on difficult mappools, and has the highest potentiel to match the United States' scaling. Every round, they got stronger, and it definitely did happen again in the Grand Finals. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This match was a repeat of the winners' bracket final, but it was different. In the Finals week, the United States won very convincingly 7–1 against Argentina — it was their first map loss of the tournament, but also their only this match. However, coming into this, Argentina was determined to make things different. The current roster for Argentina is known to be especially good on difficult mappools, and has the highest potential to match the United States' scaling. Every round, they got stronger, and it definitely did happen again in the Grand Finals.
```

> They went on to win 7-4 against Poland to reach the Grand Finals, and they already accomplished something they dreamed of — make top 2 in CWC. It was a first for them, but... couldn't they push further?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They went on to win 7–4 against Poland to reach the Grand Finals, and they already accomplished something they dreamed of — make top 2 in CWC. It was a first for them, but... couldn't they push further?
```

The United States stood in their way, being the team that absolutely dominated the entire tournament, and bested them the week prior. This year, they weren't challenging the favourites to win, they *were* the favourites, and of course, they wouldn't let this opportunity go to waste. Their core players have been playing the osu!catch World Cup for the past five (or more!) years in a row, hoping to finally win it all, and they were clearly not going to let the Argentinians get their first win before them.

> Argentina opened with [NM4](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1749081#fruits/3577912), but the United States would win it and get a breakpoint right away, setting the tone for the match to come. They then secured it by winning their next two picks in [NM3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2202783#fruits/4662225) and [DT3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2202812#fruits/4662283), showing off their versatility on wildly different maps. This versatility is really what would give them an edge in this match, having a very deep roster able to fill every niche imagineable. Argentina on the other hand, is a roster who mainly relies on their core three, playing almost every single map, every match. This weakness would really start to hurt them against an opponent such as the United States.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Argentina opened with [NM4](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1749081#fruits/3577912), but the United States would win it and get a breakpoint right away, setting the tone for the match to come. They then secured it by winning their next two picks in [NM3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2202783#fruits/4662225) and [DT3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2202812#fruits/4662283), showing off their versatility on wildly different maps. This versatility is really what would give them an edge in this match, having a very deep roster able to fill every niche imaginable. Argentina on the other hand, is a roster who mainly relies on their core three, playing almost every single map, every match. This weakness would really start to hurt them against an opponent such as the United States.
```

> They still managed to stay in the match though, also winning their next two picks, [MM1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2202817#fruits/4662289) and [MM3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2202818#fruits/4662291). The score was now 3-2 for the United States on their own pick, and for the first time this tournament, they were truly challenged by their opponent. They went on to pick [DT4](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2202815#fruits/4662287) and win it, and Argentina opted for [HR1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2202800#fruits/4662258). This would unfortunately backfire, allowing the Unted States to get a second breakpoint. Still as strong as ever, they wouldn't let go of them once secured, as they were still undefeated on their own picks. It would be the same for [HR2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2202816#fruits/4662288), which put them at a 6-2 lead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They still managed to stay in the match though, also winning their next two picks, [MM1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2202817#fruits/4662289) and [MM3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2202818#fruits/4662291). The score was now 3–2 for the United States on their own pick, and for the first time this tournament, they were truly challenged by their opponent. They went on to pick [DT4](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2202815#fruits/4662287) and win it, and Argentina opted for [HR1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2202800#fruits/4662258). This would unfortunately backfire, allowing the United States to get a second breakpoint. Still as strong as ever, they wouldn't let go of them once secured, as they were still undefeated on their own picks. It would be the same for [HR2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2202816#fruits/4662288), which put them at a 6–2 lead.
```

> The match was starting to slip away from the Argentinians' hands, and they had to do something if they wanted to stay in it. Their choice would end up being [HD3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2202858#fruits/4662378), on which we saw the first and only FC of the week, with a mind-blowing SS from ::{ flag=AR }:: [-Story-](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8172283). This would seemingly give them the momentum they needed to keep on going, because they ended up taking a breakpoint away from the United States, being the only team to do so in the tournament, on a very close [HD2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2202810#fruits/4662280). Unfortunately, having exhausted most of their good options, the match would end on their next pick,[NM1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2202779#fruits/4662219), on which the United States prevailed once again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The match was starting to slip away from the Argentinians' hands, and they had to do something if they wanted to stay in it. Their choice would end up being [HD3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2202858#fruits/4662378), on which we saw the first and only FC of the week, with a mind-blowing SS from ::{ flag=AR }:: [-Story-](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8172283). This would seemingly give them the momentum they needed to keep on going, because they ended up taking a breakpoint away from the United States, being the only team to do so in the tournament, on a very close [HD2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2202810#fruits/4662280). Unfortunately, having exhausted most of their good options, the match would end on their next pick, [NM1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2202779#fruits/4662219), on which the United States prevailed once again.
```

> And this is how this *story* (hehe) concludes, with an historic finish for both of these teams. While the United States may have won in the end, what Argentina accomplished this year is also a victory in its own right, and the same can be said for Poland. History has been made for all the podium finishers, making this osu!catch World Cup truly a special one.

Reviewer: i previously suggested to get rid of the text in the brackets, curious what Wala thinks?

Reviewer 2: well yeah usually when we put puns in news posts we just italicise it

```suggestion
And this is how this *story* concludes, with an historic finish for both of these teams. While the United States may have won in the end, what Argentina accomplished this year is also a victory in its own right, and the same can be said for Poland. History has been made for all the podium finishers, making this osu!catch World Cup truly a special one.
```

## Match highlights

> Here are all the matches that we wrote about during this World Cup, and all of them are guaranteed to keep you entertained! Whether you are wanting to rewatch the greatest matches of the year, or checking an abridged version of the TWC, we have you sorted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are all the matches that we wrote about during this World Cup, and all of them are guaranteed to keep you entertained! Whether you are wanting to rewatch the greatest matches of the year, or looking for an abridged version of the TWC, we have you sorted.
```

Author: fixed and changed twc to cwc (oops)

| ::{ flag=RU }:: Russian Federation vs. ::{ flag=PE }:: Peru | Semifinals | [Text summary](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2024-06-19-osu-catch-world-cup-2024-semifinals-recap#russian-federation-vs.--peru), [VOD](https://www.twitch.tv/videos/2172850090) |
| ::{ flag=AR }:: Argentina vs. ::{ flag=FI }:: Finland | Semifinals | [Text summary](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2024-06-19-osu-catch-world-cup-2024-semifinals-recap#argentina-vs.--finland), [VOD](https://www.twitch.tv/videos/2172930270) |
| ::{ flag=CL }:: Chile vs. ::{ flag=PL }:: Poland | Finals | [Text summary](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2024-06-28-osu-catch-world-cup-2024-finals-recap#chile-vs.--poland), [VOD](https://www.twitch.tv/videos/2179700308) |
| ::{ flag=CA }:: Canada vs. ::{ flag=PL }:: Poland | Finals | [Text summary](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2024-06-28-osu-catch-world-cup-2024-finals-recap#canada-vs.--poland), [VOD](https://www.twitch.tv/videos/2179927104) |

## osu! originals

<style>
    .osu-md--news .audio-player {
        max-width: inherit;
    }
</style>

> The fruit enjoyers this year ate good with **10** [osu! originals](/wiki/osu!_originals), the most we've ever had, each with their own original artowrk, whether it was backgrounds, storyboards, or even videos for some.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fruit enjoyers this year ate good with **10** [osu! originals](/wiki/osu!_originals), the most we've ever had, each with their own original artwork, whether it was backgrounds, storyboards, or even videos for some.
```
